---
layout: post
title: "UX Tip: Don't Hurt Me On Sign-Up, Wait Until Later"
has_ads: true
tags:
  - Web
  - Design
  - UX
---

To illustrate the shit I was talking about in
[Outside the US, Don't Require Postal Codes](/blog/2011/12/12/ux-tip-outside-us-dont-require-postal-codes.html),
here's a concrete example: **DZone.com**

<img src="{% asset_link /assets/photos/dzone.png %}" style="max-width: 95%; display:block; margin: auto; margin-top: 30px; margin-bottom: 30px; box-shadow: 0px 0px 4px #888; border-radius: 10px; padding: 5px;" />

**Phone validation is broken** - apparently DZone doesn't like the
fact that I've got a nice / memorable number with repeating digits
(that's not my number btw, but I just changed the digits for this
article, the format is the same). The phone is required too, . Why the
heck do you need my phone number anyway? Isn't email enough? I always
check my email, I'm always connected. And it should be up to me to
decide what contacting options you receive. I complained to them about
this. 24 hours later, no response.

This is one of those cases in which people want to show their
cleverness. *Oh, look at my form, it's so clever*. Just like the
people that think a maximum *password length* of 16 to 30 chars is a
good idea (DZone does this too btw) - in the spirit of always
validating your inputs. After all, those plain-text passwords in their
database eats up space.

**Zip/Postal Code is required**. I don't know it by default, I never
use it anyway, never. For DZone I didn't even bother to look it up. I
never bothered to provide a correct one for Amazon, which is actually
sending me stuff, like purchased items or money. So I provided a fake
one.

**Why is Company Name required?** - Maybe I'm an independent. Maybe
I'm unemployed. Maybe I don't want to freaking tell you about it. Are
you going to harass me through my employer in case I don't behave? I
won't even mention the required-ness of the job title / job
function. Would that prove I'm qualified? That's just sad.

Maybe you want to simulate Facebook's original exclusiveness. However
make sure people actually want to be members first.

**I don't know the size of the company I'm working for** - maybe this
is a no brainer for the people that actually care to put this on their
business cards or talk about it at *stand-ups* within the company,
just before gathering around a fire singing Kumbaya. However, the
company I work for has people distributed in remote locations and I
don't interact with all of them, while big corporations have centers
all over the world - to not lie, you'd basically have to do a google
search, or ask around, just to get past a freaking form (that doesn't
send you money for the effort).

So there you have it, a good example.